Hello and welcome back to the advanced
course on Tableau. And in today's
tutorial we're going to finalize our
visualization. We've already created
everything we need and all we have to do
is just take this chart from LOD exclude
part 2 and combine it with this chart
from LOD include. So let's go ahead and
do that, the quickest way is to just
simply duplicate this chart, this sheet
and here we're going to say combined
find this organization and then we're
going to create a second map and then on
this map we're going to so let's just
like this map by itself just going to
remove everything from here, I will leave
it at country but we'll leave it at
state level because that's what we are
now we want in this visualization and
now we just have to add these averages
back in so we want the average of our
city profit so we can use the LOD fixed.
So we can use LOD include when the
average of our city profit to be color
not sum but average measure, average and
we want so just hold down control and
the same thing as the label. In fact we
don't actually want the label in this
case, so its control zed that. We just
want the color which tells us which
states have higher or lower average
profit across their cities and now we
just want to combine these two. So all we
have to do is right click over here and
select dual-axis. There we go so just
make sure that the second chart is on
top of the first one if it's the other
way around you just have to drag these
and rearrange them like in this case you
can see that it's in the wrong order so
simply just rearrange them and again in
the second map we're going to remove the
comment because it's it makes it look
cluttered and so here it just simply all
we have left to do is
play around with a couple of aesthetical
features for example in this first chart
that's the color I don't think we really
need a border, so we just select none.
No actually, we do need a border just say
automatic so it's not as dark and then
in the second the second chart here we
can also play around like with size, for
instance make them a bit bigger then
with color you might want to make it a
bit more transparent maybe if you feel
like it.
Also you can also maybe make the border
a bit darker so you can see the point's
better. So there we go that's pretty much
it.
All we have to do left all that's left
is just to fix up this tool tips or
somebody does want to explore the data
set that they get the correct comments
that there after instead of this average
LOD, include city profit. They would get
like a common saying the average across
profit across cities and then for this
one they would get a comment saying
instead of LOD exclude state profit, they
would get just a state profit then they
would get profits over here would be the
city profit then ABS. So this this
doesn't even need to be there, so I'll
just quickly show you how our approach
this, I would go into work sheet, go into
tooltip and here you can simply just
adjust these things so we don't want
this one.
We don't want this one because that's
the color and the size then here it says
LOD exclude state profit. We just want
to change it to just state profit and
then here city. We want a city that's the
name of the city here. This would be
average profit across cities click okay.
Let's have a look at that now, so that's
better
and that's better as well so as you can
see we fix them up very quickly and it's
up to you what
information you would like to present
for instance because you have already
the state here you might want you might
not want to present the state profit
here but once again that is totally up
to you, other than that, the visualization has
been completed and people can already
derive insights from this visualization
and it's quite powerful and what I like
about it is that we actually use two
level of detail calculation. So we've got
the two charts, but the chart with the
states use a level of detail calculation
to access the chart in background to
access level of granularity with the
cities and bring that information back
whereas the chart with the cities uses a
level of detail calculation to access
the level of granularity with the states
and bring information back. So they're
kind of like the right next to each
other but there's they still require
this level of detail calculations to
access information at each other's level
of granularity. I find it quite an
interesting concept but that's the way
it is and as you can see as you could
tell from this section there's nothing
difficult about creating these level of
detailed calculations. So I hope you
enjoyed creating this visualization, I
hope we definitely covered a lot of
ground. We cover a lot of different level
of detail calculations in a lot of
detail to not to repeat myself but
definitely this just requires practice.
You just need to practice and look at
different scenarios, different types of
dimensions where you would use level of
detail calculations just to make sure
that all this knowledge sinks in and
that you are very proficient with it. And
I hope you enjoyed this section. I look
forward to seeing you next time and
until then happy analyzing.